In this section, we will discuss what bridging the gap means.
The phrase, bridge the gap, is a vernacular, so let's define it.
To serve as or create a connection between two disconnected or disparate things.
Those are interesting words for sure.
I am suggesting to you that the business and IT in many organizations
can be a bit disconnected or have disparate concerns,
and it is the role of the technical business analyst to help bridge or better
connect them for the long-term success of the business.
So it looks like you, the technical business analyst,
will have your work cut out for you, indeed.
Businesses need to improve productivity,
cut costs, grow market share, and basically to make money,
so often technology is the enabler which allows the
business to achieve those goals.
Thus,
the technical BA is the professional who ensures the
technology meets those business needs.
That is a very important mission and should not be taken lightly.
Technical BA's understand the goals of the business and must never
lose sight of this key requirement of their job.
The technical BA is the bridge between what the
business needs and the ultimate solution.
In order to be effective,
a technical BA must understand the business and have an
intimate knowledge of the business processes and needs of the
organization they are working for.
And, at the same time,
the technical BA must understand the challenges and capabilities of
technology in the market in general and the technologies and skills of
the IT organization they are working with.
They need to bridge the double gap, that is,
the technical BA will not only be bridging the gap between the business and IT,
but also between your organization's technology
applications and what is out in the market today,
especially if you have agent applications and infrastructure.
Let's check out a few more items.
The technical BA must have a solid awareness of an
organization's as-is technology portfolio,
such as its applications,
and especially the myriad of challenges to deploy
and operate those technologies.
This is where the benefit and merit at having a technical BA rests.
They are skilled professionals who use their business and
analytical skills to understand the problems,
requirements, and goals of the business,
and at the same time they leverage their communication and technical
competencies to work with the technical teams to develop suitable solutions
and to deliver the solutions on time and on budget.
The technical BA is positioned at the juncture and the
confluence of business and technology.
Now, the technical BA avoids throwing it over the wall.
In the past, and maybe even today, there was a chasm,
a really big gap,
where the pure business analysts wrote the business requirements and threw,
if you will, the specs over the wall to the IT development team.
We all know that does not work.
Solution teams need to be fully integrated and cooperate.
Wow, what a great place for you, the technical BA, to be positioned professionally.